Welcome to this video on Introduction to
Multiple Linear Regression.
After watching this video, you will be able to
Describe multiple linear regression,
Compare multiple linear regression and simple
linear regression, and
List the pitfalls of multiple linear regression.
Multiple linear regression is an extension of
the simple linear regression model.
It uses two or more independent variables to
estimate a dependent variable.
Mathematically, the multiple regression model
is a linear combination of the form
y hat equals theta zero plus theta one x one,
where the x one are the feature vectors that
can be represented as a matrix x that includes
a constant value of one in the first entry
to account for the bias or intercept term theta
underscore zero, and the thetas are
the unknown weights, which can be represented as matrix theta.
Let's consider the data set in this table.
Multiple linear regression can be used to
measure the strength of each independent
variable's effect on a dependent variable.
You can predict the CO2 emission of a motor
car from features like engine size, number
of cylinders, and fuel consumption by forming a
linear combination of the features using
trained weights, theta i. You can use the
trained model to predict the expected CO2
emission of an unknown case, such as record number 9.
Multiple linear regression results in a better
model than using a simple linear regression.
However, adding too many variables can cause your
model to overfit or essentially memorize
the training data, making it a poor predictor for unseen observations.
To improve prediction, categorical independent
variables can be incorporated into a regression
model by converting them into numerical variables.
For example, given a binary variable such as car type,
the code zero for manual and
one for automatic cars can be substituted to make it numerical.
For a categorical variable with more than two classes,
you can opt to transform it into
new Boolean features, one for each class.
Multiple linear regression has applications in
every industry. It is widely used in the
education sector to predict outcomes and explain
relationships between variables. For example,
do revision time, test anxiety, lecture attendance,
and gender affect student exam performance?
Multiple linear regression can also be used to
predict the impact of changes in what-if
scenarios. What-if scenarios involve hypothetical
changes to one or more of your model's input
features to see the predicted outcome. For example,
suppose you were reviewing a person's
health data. In that case, multiple linear
regression might be able to tell you how much
that person's blood pressure would rise or
fall for every change in a patient's body
mass index, BMI.
The what-if scenario can sometimes provide
inaccurate findings in the following situations.
You might consider impossible scenarios for
your model to obtain predictions. You might
extrapolate scenarios that are too distant
from the realm of data it was trained on.
Your model might depend on more than one
variable amongst a group of correlated or collinear
variables. When two variables are correlated,
they are no longer independent variables because
they are predictors of each other. They are collinear.
You can perform a what-if scenario with a linear
regression model by changing a single
variable while holding all other variables constant.
However, if the variable is correlated
with another feature, then this is not feasible
because the other variable must also change
realistically. The solution for avoiding pitfalls
from correlated variables is to remove any
redundant variables from the regression analyses.
To build your multiple regression model, you must
select your variables using a balanced
approach considering uncorrelated variables,
which are most understood, controllable, and
most correlated with the target.
Multiple linear regression assigns a relative
importance to each feature. Imagine you are
predicting CO2 emission, or Y, from other
variables for the automobile in record number
9. Once you find the parameters, you can plug
them into the linear model equation model.
For example, let's use theta 0 equals 125,
theta 1 equals 6.2, theta 2 equals 14, and
so on. If we map these values to our dataset,
we can rewrite the linear model as CO2 emission
equals 125 plus 6.2, multiplied by engine size plus 14,
multiplied by cylinder, and
so on.
Now, let's plug in the 9th row of R and
calculate the CO2 emissions for a car with
a 2.4L engine. So CO2 emission equals 125
plus 6.2 times 2.4 plus 14 times 4, and so
on. We can predict the CO2 emission for this
specific car will be 214.1.
For a simple linear regression, where there is
only one feature vector, the regression
in the equation defines a line. For multiple
linear regression using two features, the
solution describes a plane. Beyond two dimensions,
it describes a hyperplane. Like with simple
linear regression, the values in the weight
vector theta can be determined by minimizing
the mean square prediction error.
Given a set of parameters, consider a linear
model based on the linear combination of the
parameters with the features. You can measure
the residual error for each car in the dataset
as the difference between its true CO2 emission
value and the value predicted by the model.
For example, if the model predicts 140 as the
value for the first car in the dataset,
using the actual value of 196, you can see the
residual error is 196 minus 140, or 56.
The average of all the residual errors indicates
how poorly the model predicts the actual values.
This information is called the mean squared error, or MSE.
MSE is not the only way to expose the error
of a linear model. However, it is the most
popular. With this metric, the best model
for the dataset is the one with the least
squared error. The factor of 1 slash n in the
MSE equation isn't necessary to include
to minimize the error, so this method is
called least squares linear regression. So, multiple
linear regression aims to minimize the MSE
equation by finding the best parameters. There
are many ways to estimate the value of these
coefficients. However, ordinary least squares
and an optimization approach are the most common methods.
Ordinary least squares estimate
the values of the coefficients by minimizing
the mean squared error. This approach uses
the data as a matrix and uses linear algebra
operations to calculate the optimal values
for theta. Another option is to use an
optimization algorithm to find the best parameters. That
is, you can use a process of optimizing the
coefficients by iteratively minimizing the
model's error on your training data.
For example, you can use the gradient descent
method, which starts the optimization with
random values for each coefficient. Gradient
descent is a good approach if you have a large dataset.
Multiple linear regression is an extension of
the simple linear regression model. It
uses two or more independent variables to
estimate a dependent variable. It is widely
used in the education sector to predict
outcomes and explain relationships between variables.
Multiple linear regression can also be used to
predict the impact of changes in what-if
scenarios. Adding too many variables can cause your model
to overfit or essentially memorize the training data,
making it a poor predictor for unseen
observations. To build your multiple regression model,
you must select your variables using
a balanced approach, considering uncorrelated variables,
which are most understood, controllable,
and most correlated with the target.
There are many ways to estimate the parameters for
multiple linear regression. However, ordinary
least squares and an optimization with random
values approach are the most common methods.
In this video, you learned how multiple linear
regression results in a better model than
using a simple linear regression.